At this point, you can understand why
this is complicated to the bottom.
And think about thousands of users with
many versions of the ServiceWorker
because maybe the user is not
coming back to your website.
But again, we are not going to
the service workers details.
But having mind that when you send
a push message and the ServiceWorker
activates for the first time in a while,
it will check if there is a new version.
And if there is a new version,
it will install the new version that
will be ready for the next push.
Okay, so it's we are uncomplicated,
but yeah, with enough information and
enough organization,
you can version your service workers.
You can log that in your server, you can
know which versions users have, and so on.
Okay, make sense,
do you have any question at this point?
What else can we do here
in the notification?
So if I'm going to the ServiceWorker,
but if you look here,
it's the ServiceWorker, the one that is
sending the notification, not the server.
So the server is waking up, but
the one that generates the UI,
the visual notification
is the ServiceWorker,
and here I have a larger object.
So I can show you everything that
can be done in notification.
Fact is let's see the another example,
registration show notification for
the master, and
that option, it's long one.
So we have the body, we have already
seen that one, we can specify direction
that for Arabic or Hebrew, okay,
you can change that, you can have actions.
What's an action buttons that you
can have in your notification?
To be honest on desktop, they look weird,
they look really nice on Android.
So the notification can include actions,
buttons, makes sense?
So then you can say yes, no.
I mean, the notification can have
a question and then yes or no.
And you can provide different icons,
okay, for that, and yeah,
we'll explain, okay, where?
What happens with the action?
Okay, wait a minute.
Well icon, a batch, what's the difference
between the icon and the batch?
The batch is the little icon that
appears in the Android status bar,
okay, that sometimes is grayscale.
So you can change the icon that you
see when you open the notification
from this molar icon from
the status bar on Android.
Okay, an image so you can provide like
a larger image it can be a photo.
For example, when you receive a photo from
WhatsApp, you can get a thumbnail of that
photo in the notification itself that then
you can see in your watch for example.
Remember that you will see web push
notifications on watches as well.
Okay, vibration, this works on
Android only on some Androids also.
You will find here a vibration pattern,
this is vibration, delay,
or pause, vibration pause,
vibration pause in milliseconds.
>> Is there limit on that?
Can we do like nine million seconds?
>> You could, but yeah, so
the spec has no limit to
be honest on most I think this
works on Firefox Android.
Chrome on Android depends on
the manufacturer, it's not gonna work, so
it doesn't work really consistently.
Hey, the vibration, you can make a sound
as well in the real world doesn't work.
The idea is that you can provide
an mp3 file that will be played when
the notification is arrived like
your own sound for that, but
it doesn't work, it's in the spec,
but it doesn't work.
Attire, this is to identify that
notification if you have more
than one notification that will
explain why it's useful data.
You can attach payload
to the notification,
a timestamp, this is so
when some operating systems
render the notification it
says a day ago four hours ago.
Because maybe you have just
received the notification, but
it's what generated four hours ago.
Okay, make sense?
Require interaction if you say true,
typically it works on Android only,
then the user will have to like
click on it to do this method.
Renotify true if you say true,
false is the default,
if you say true, it's saying,
hey, I'm using the same tag.
So it's the same ID,
it is the same authentication,
I don't wanna just silently modify
the contents, I wanna re-notify the user.
So like vibrate again or sound again, and
silent, true, or false,
it's in the spec, but isn't gonna work.
So this is a lot of based
on a best effort actually.
The question is what about actions?
What about ID?
So how can I play with that?
Well, there are more events
in the ServiceWorker such
as push such as terminal push,
notification click.
So if the user is clicking
in one notification,
you will get here in your
ServiceWorker a call.
And in the event, you will receive
the data, the payload that you sent,
you will receive the tau, so you know
exactly which notification is that one,
and you will receive an optional action.
So in the case, there is an action,
because maybe there are no actions,
You will know here which
button the user has used.
So then you can just notify your server,
you can send a request saying
the user says yes or no to this ID.
Make sense?
What else you can do here?
This is the only place in
the whole ServiceWorker
ecosystem where you can
actually focus the user
browser in your tab or
you can open a new tab only here.
So a ServiceWorker cannot open tabs
because it's in the background,
it's weird,
the only exception is notification click.
From notification click,
you can open a new tab because the user
has clicked in the notification,
so the user wants something, so
something can be opened in the URL.
>> Is that in the event objects then?
>> The opening the noise
in the clients API.
So the ServiceWorker
has a clients property.
And the clients open a property
you can query all the clients, so
you can see all the clients to see if
there was a client from a service workers
perspective, a Window, or
a PWA from that origin?
So you can query the clients and
see if you have one client available.
And if it's there,
you can just focus on that one, so
it will pop up the current
available Window or
you can create from here,
you can open a new client.
So this is known as the client API, so
is the ServiceWorker client API on MDN.
You have what you can do so much all is
the way you have to actually search or
see all the clients available right now.
And you have the open Window
that will open a new Window, but
clients open Window will work
only within notification click.
That's the only place where you have
permission to actually open a Window.
So for example,
here you can open a Window to one URL that
says notification click and
you pass the ID or whatever.
You pass the tie and that will open
the browser in that particular URL,
because remember,
everything happens in the background.
>> I'm just wondering how it knows it's
in the event listener like if we create
a separate function called
handle notification click?
>> [COUGH] It will work because I mean,
the browser knows the event that is
firing the current execution,
it's in the call stack.
So if it's in the call stack,
it will work.
The same happens that you cannot today
on Safari, for example, you cannot
request permission for notification on
payload, you need user interaction.
So the browser knows if you're
executing a function, and
in the cost stack, it's because there
was an click event, okay, make, sense?
That's the push API,
then everything on top
of that it's something
that you need to build.
So the API is this, that's how it works.
There's nothing that we mentioned before,
but
push messages can arrive when a web
app is active or when it's closed.
If it's closed, it's simple, but
if it's active maybe you don't
wanna open a new Window.
You wanna send the message internally
to the page saying, hey, there is
a message notifier, maybe you notify the
user internally or something like that.
And I mentioned before,
you are not forced to notify the user
with a payload's body,
you are forced to notify something.
You can take advantage of the data
that the server send or not up to you.